	QUESTION 1.
INTERGRATION PROTOCOLS
Data integration protocols are the series of procedures, systems rules that govern the entire data communication and exchange.
The most common known integration protocols are as follows:
I)	Application programming interface (API).
This is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other, for example Facebook sending instant messages thus employs the usage of API programming interface tools.
The given example of python3 is request response program that lands Maseno university students to their login interface pages directly.


II)	 HTTP callback protocol.
This the protocol that relates to events detections such as sending instant messages, receiving a phone call,
The applications makes an http call request usually POST or GET to the url you configured for the web hook.
Given example in python 3 is request response for printing response codes.


III)	ISC protocol 
ISC DHCP implements the dynamic host confutation for connects to an IP network, offering a complete solution for implementing a DHCP server, relay agents, and clients.
ISC DHCP is a mature program with many features.

IV)	Orchestration protocols
This protocol for presented as unified transport application programming interface solution for joint cloud network orchestration allowing internetwork of heterogeneous control planes to provide for provisioning and recovery of quality of service aware end to end services.
Example given in python 3 code is a ZOCP app.




Question 2.

Walkthrough of how to manage data streaming applications.


The world generates an unfortunate amount of data every minute and every day, thus the multiplication rate is higher.
Companies in every industry are gradually shifting from batch processing to real-time data streams to keep up with modern business requirements.
Data streaming also known as event stream processing, streaming data is the continuous flow of data generated by various sources.
By using data streaming applications, data streams can be processed, stored, analyzed and acted upon as its generates in real time.
Data streaming applications are therefore records data in real time streams of data join together to create seamless user experience.

Used case application example:

Let’s use an example used case of an application that tracks movements of moving abject,
The application pieces together real-time location tracking, traffic stats, pricing and real-time traffic data to simultaneously match the rider with the best possible driver, calculate pricing and estimates time of destination based on both real-time and historical data.
In this sense, streaming data is the first step for any data driven organization fueling big data integration, integration and real time analysis.

The challenges associated with data streaming are as follows:
Scalability, the accumulation of big data tat will intern need big space of storage thus data storage mechanism should be well managed.
Ordering, the sequence of data streams will always be interfered with when a system failure occurs thus miscommunication of the subsequent entire sequence.
Consistency and durability, the risk that data can be modified is the main threat here, when the data is changed the sequencing value changes.
Fault tolerance and data guarantee, failure to store streams of data with high availability and durability.



Question 3.
Discussing the different hashing/encryption methods.

Encryption is a two-way function where data is passed in as plaintext and comes out as cipher text, which is unreadable.

Hashing is a one-way, meaning the plaintext is scrambled into a unique digest through the use of a salt, that cannot be decrypted technically hashing can be reversed but the computational power needed  to do so makes  the process infeasible.
Now, encryption comes in two ways,
Asymmetric and symmetric.
Asymmetric encryption uses two different keys and a public key and a private key for encryption and decryption.
Private keys encrypt data, while public keys decrypts it’, here, authenticity can be verified thus uses less processing power and it’s faster.
Some of the algorithms or methods of asymmetric encryption are:
I)	Elliptic curve digest signal.
II)	Rivest-shamir-adlenam
III)	Diffie-hellman and
IV)	Pretty Good Privacy

Symmetric encryption uses the same key for both encryption and decryption thus use less processing power and it’s faster and less secure.
Some of the methods for symmetric encryption are:
I) Advanced Encryption standard.
II) BlowFish
III)RIvest Cipher and
IV) Path encryption standard

Hashing methods are therefore the following:
I) Message Digest Algorithm (MD5)
II) Secure hashing algorithm (SHA-256)
III) WHIRPOOL
IV) TIGER and 
V) Cyclical Reduction Check (CRC32)
























	
